General Yakov Amador thank you so much
for joining me on up
front thank you very much for inviting
me uh after the October 7th attacks
Israel launched a devastating counter
offensive in Gaza uh it caused
unprecedented levels of Destruction and
of course civilian deaths now one of the
great concerns from the International
Community from Human Rights
organizations and indeed from other
nations has been that Israel has not
followed the rules of War particularly
this question of proportionality right
now uh for every uh Hamas Soldier killed
there have been at least two civilians
in Gaza killed does that seem like an
acceptable ratio no it's not acceptable
and this is why we think that Hamas is
making a um crimes crimes against
humanity by fighting within uh civilian
population something that not not
allowed by the international law the
fact that Hamas is using human shield
women children and old people to defend
itself by fighting from their houses and
from their streets and don't let these
people to go out of the area of the
battlefield no question that it is a a
crime against humanity and Hamas should
be punished and even more than that we
gave the population time uh to leave the
area and we designated safe heavens and
Hamas block the way to those safe
Heavens so by that push the civilians
into the battlefield so you're saying
that Israel's killing of Palestinian
civilians is a war crime committed by
Hamas and not by Israel I mean you're
you're basing that argument if I
understand you correctly on the idea
that Hamas is using human Shields now
first that has not been proven by any
human rights organization in fact even
if what you're saying is true that
doesn't absorb you of your
responsibility to avoid killing civilian
targets you can't just say Well they're
hiding among civilians so we're going to
kill civilians and you can't just say
well it's hamas's fault okay uh first of
all uh as you know and everyone can can
see we found the Hamas operational
centers and the hospitals in Gaza so if
this is not a human shield don't know
what human shield is we have pictures of
Hamas that has not been that has not
that hasn't been proven sir no I I don't
I I my friends well it so I don't need
your approvement um wait wait you
haven't offered the world you you
haven't offered the world any proof I
want you to finish your answer but I
just want to be clear for the audience's
benefit that under international law uh
to to to change the status of a hospital
to a to a military Target the burden of
proof is on Israel to demonstrate that
it is a Hamas command CER it's not
enough to say there's a Hamas fighter
there it's not enough to say there's a
few members of homas to change the
status you got to prove that and you
can't just say take my word for it I
just for clarity sake where's the
evidence who's who who's who's who has
who has proven this please let me answer
the answer we found under the hospitals
Center of command of of Hamas and if you
want pictures you can ask the spokesman
of the IDE we sent you many of them we
found weapon systems under the hospital
and we know for sure that at least one
hospit was killed in the hospital by
Hamas um people the it's not the only
Hospital under which there are Commander
commands and control headquarters of
Hamas we have pictures of Hamas people
going with children around them so we
can we cannot kill them if you want the
picture I will send you and the fact and
please and the fact you don't don't I I
I'm not I know that you will not show it
know your your network you will not show
it anyhow um and the fact that we are
killing civilians what is the
alternative that we will not kill any
civilian and we cannot fight Hamas
because Hamas is is fighting from behind
the the civilians so the alternative not
to kill civilians meaning the meaning
the Practical meaning of it is not to to
kill Hamas it to let Hamas to rule the
Gaza Street after this uh Declaration of
more and atrocities and primitive and
Barbarian action which was done by Hamas
and you tell me General because they're
hiding so nicely behind civilians and
you cannot kill civilians so they will
be immune uh we are not buying the logic
and we will continue to destroy Hamas
and if the payment will be paid by the
civilians of Gaza they can apply to
Hamas Hamas is there Hamas was elected
by them and they can apply to Hamas and
ask Hamas to fight to to stop the the wi
by the way if they surrender immediately
we will not kill any civilian uh 44%
little more than 44% of the Palestinian
people uh voted for Hamas as a plurality
in 2006 about half of the Palestinian
population right now is under 18 meaning
that most people in Gaza absolutely did
not vote for Hamas that's also just
factually incorrect uh
your vision of security rests upon a
military strategy that as you've just
described will inevitably kill citizens
civilians and will lead to the
destruction of more uh monuments more
cultural sites more parts of Civil
Society if all of this happens do you
not worry that it will only ferment more
resistance more violence more people who
have antipathy towards the Israeli
government I mean there are security and
terrorism experts who actually caution
this say that Israel's widespread
killing of Palestinian civilians
increases the risk of violent attacks
against isra Israelis how do you respond
to These Warnings that what you're doing
that Israel's bombardment of Gaza will
actually make Israel less secure I see
that you don't don't remember the
situation before the sth of
October before the first sth of October
there was a ceasefire Israel didn't to
take Gaza Israel gave many uh people
from Gaza to come to walk in Israel is
gave um economic help to go into
Gaza not many people but
sure you don't let me to ask the
question but I can't allow you to say
things that aren't true less than 1% of
the of the of the gazin population had
work permits what was the number of of
Gins who could work in
Israel I'll give you the number 18,000
people right there are 2.2 million
people in Gaza that's not a large number
most people in Gaza cannot leave or
cannot enter or
leave did they say huge I I I never said
you percentage I said Israel try to help
to promote the economy of Gaza by
letting 1% of people come in okay go
ahead please
finish did you finish the statistics
which is not true what's what's children
are not going to children are not going
to walk in Israel women are are not
going to go to go to to walk in Israel
the the the only man after the age of 24
or 30 so with all the resp your
statistic please please correct your
statistic I I do not have connection to
the reality but let me answer stop me
again and again that's because you You'
once again said respectfully sir you've
once again said something that's untrue
factually but I'll allow you to continue
no well it's true I didn't say it's a
high percent I say
18,000 people from Gaza went out every
day to walk in his this is a number if
it's you say that it is too little maybe
should we give more people to walk in
Israel without the atrocities and the
violation of the ceasefire byas probably
today we had with 25,000 I don't know
probably because that was the intention
of Israel to give more workers to go out
of Gaza and to walk in Israel and we
gave all the permission to Qatar and
other countries to bring money to G and
the Palestinian Authority sent money to
Gaza because our interest was to promote
the economy of Gaza because people
believed in Israel huge mistake that
Hamas has some responsibility for the
people of Gaza and by promoting the
economy well pushing away the plan of
Hamas to attack Israel we made a mistake
Hamas did didn't care about his people
Hamas initiated the war in Israel
declare a war and by butchering
thousands civilians women babies
and ring women as well so we decided
that it is not an option anymore we
don't have any obligation towards Gaza
around relating to the civilian life of
these people they can apply to Hamas we
gave them all the opportunities uh Hamas
decided to initiate a war against Israel
Hamas will pay the price okay again I I
wanted you to finish before I I offer
this correction under international law
Israel actually does have a responsib
ability and a duty to the gazan citizens
do you disagree with
that yes I disagree because we are not
conquering Gaza we took 2006 all the
Israelis out of Gaza no one soldier in
Gaza no one civilian in Gaza n no
Israeli who control who controls the
border of Gaza who who controls the
border of
Gaza
Egypt you talking you're talking about
the Rafa border what I'm saying is is
that is that Israel controls or border
basically is Israel has redeployed its
troops in 2006 from inside of Gaza to
the periphery of Gaza Israel controls
what goes into Gaza and what comes out
of Gaza Israel controls the population
registry Israel controls the the the the
the flow of people and the flow of money
Israel controls Gaza by land air and sea
is anything that I just said
untrue yes which part everything that
you said is not is not true Israel does
not control the population registry of
of of
Gaza no isra doesn't control the flow of
goods in and out of
Gaza no Israel does not have any
military presence on the border of of
Gaza between Israel and Gaza but not
between Gaza and Egypt they can move
through Egypt whenever they want
whatever they want they can bring okay
you're you're you're go can go it's very
easy you car you take a car you go
through Rafa you go to Cairo and you
take the plan and you go to Europe we
don't stop them okay sir I think the
International Community will be
surprised when they hear your word
saying that Israel does not control
again the the the the borders the
population registry the electromagnetic
sphere every part of Gaza but that
that's up for the International
Community to side when they watch this
interview uh let let me
take you don't it's a fact on if someone
from Gaza wants to go out they can go to
Rafa if the Egyptians will let him I
don't know the Egyptians we let them but
it's not in Israel it's not in Israel
respectfully sir a STW man no one is
disputing that Egypt has control over
the Rafa border what was that issue here
was whether or not in 2006 Israel left
Gaza or whether they simply redeployed
their troops in such a way that they
still control again the flow of goods
the flow of people the the the the
electromagnetic sphere the population
registry every part of of Gaz and life
is still functionally controlled and
occupied by Israel which is why the
International Community international
law suggests that Israel still maintains
effective control over Gaza but we can
agree to disagree I I I want to move on
to another question here if Israel does
succeed in its aim of dismantling if
Israel does succeed in its aim of
dismantling or as prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said eliminating
Hamas what will happen next in
Gaza first of all I think that you don't
give your audience the real situation um
on the ground the real situation on the
ground that Israel does not control
what's coming in and out from Egypt into
the Gaza Street the border between Gaza
and Egypt is controlled by Egypt not by
Israel only respect but Egypt doesn't
occupy Egypt doesn't OCC Egypt doesn't
occupy Gaza Egypt hasn't had control of
Gaza in five
decades we don't occupy Gaza as well we
don't control anything inside Gaza we
are not in Gaza if you see a situation
of 500 kilometer of tunnels under Gaza
if we were in
I mean ridiculous story you tell here
you you believe that we would have allow
Hamas to build its military capability
if you wear in Gaza it's license with
all the respect again I'm not disputing
that you're in Gaza I'm asserting that
you redeploy troops from from in Gaza in
2005 at the end of the year to the
border and and you control it
effectively by controlling what goes in
and out so I agree with you that you're
not in Gaza the point is it's an
effective control by how you manage the
perimeter but again we can agree to
disagree on that the world can make its
own determination this is this is an
empirical matter no no we are not
controlling the perimeter of Gaza when
it is coming to the border between Gaza
and Egypt we are controlling the border
between Israel and Gaza but not between
Gaza and Egypt sir if we were to pull
out a map you will understand that the
majority of you you you will understand
that the bulk of the border is is not
with Rafa is not with Egypt the bulk of
the border that gazin engaged is where
with Israel that's number one and number
two Egypt does not assert military and
governmental control over Gaza not in
five decades so again to pretend that
somehow you're not responsible for what
happens to Gaza when you continue to
maintain effective control as per every
human rights organization as per
international law we see that this is an
obvious fact and you seem to be denying
it but we don't have to agree on this
fact I'd like to move on so that I can
get an answer to my question which was
no I don't want to move on no I I'm not
going to move on sir I sir sir sir I
because you are lying no you are lying
you know you
know that is fine sir sir sir let's move
on to another question I don't move to
another question fine you don't have sir
I respect that
sir me the B between Israel and Gaza is
not control Egypt and Gaza I understand
you made your point Sir Sir you made
your point sir you've made your point if
you're saying that you're not willing to
move on unless I agree with you that
Israel doesn't control Gaza then we
can't continue because that's not a fact
and I won't and I I refuse to
acknowledge something that's not true is
is not control Gaza isra is not you've
made your point are you willing to move
to another question or do you want to
are you willing to move to another
question yes okay you just admit that
Israel is not control God then you get
your own okay well I'm not okay sir okay
sir so sir understood so sir I'm not
going to admit that Israel doesn't
control Gaza so I'm going to thank you
for your time and I appreciate you
joining us on up front have a good
day